Introduction 
===============================================

Introduction
-------------
Research in computing for sustainability has grown at a steady rate and has now emerged as an important research field. Efficient energy management is one of the most critical aspects of any office space. Devices such as printers are a heavy electrical load and require large amounts of power. The continuous growth of energy demand coupled the environment deterioration caused by the generation of energy using unsustainable sources have lead to development of energy optimization and management techniques.
Ideally every device in an office should have energy sensing capabilities through which it can continuously monitor and optimize energy consumption. But since this is not economically feasible, current approaches involve either non intrusive load monitoring or individually estimating the energy consumption of each device using energy consumption models and then optimizing the parameters which affect power consumption. The main drawback here is that the energy model may not be accurate (or even a good approximation of the power consumption characteristics of the device) due to the errors present in the  model.\newline Our approach aims to build an accurate power consumption model of an individual device using probabilistic learning techniques. The underlying goal of this project is to develop a model for detecting and recognizing certain patterns in the electrical consumption of a device. Since the printer is a thermostatically controlled device as well as usage dependent, it forms an interesting problem.

Problem Statement
--------------------
The primary objective of this project is to study different flavours of HMMs to build a probabilistic model of the energy consumption characteristics of a device. This requires the study of modelling state durations in HMMs. More specifically, the focus of the study is to model multi regime sequential data in a specific context when the state durations follow a truncated distribution. Initial investigations lead to the study of explicit duration HMM models, Inhomogeneous HMM and the expanded state HMM. 
This project proposes a Quasi Deterministic Hidden Markov Models (QDHMM) to address the limitations in the existing duration modelling techniques in the context of energy profiling. The model is formalized and results are presented. This project also aims to study combinatorial optimization heuristics and meta heuristics to generate feasible solutions when the problem is in a space with imperfect information.
